# VPC - A virtual network dedicated to your AWS account. 

## Service Overview 

Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) lets you provision a logically isolated section of the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud where you can launch AWS resources in a virtual network that you define. You have complete control over your virtual networking environment, including selection of your own IP address range, creation of subnets, and configuration of route tables and network gateways 

### Concepts for VPCs: 

**Virtual private cloud (VPC)** — A virtual network dedicated to your AWS account. 

**Subnet** — A range of IP addresses in your VPC. 

**Route table** — A set of rules, called routes, that are used to determine where network traffic is directed. 

**Internet gateway** — A gateway that you attach to your VPC to enable communication between resources in your VPC and the internet. 

**VPC endpoint** — Enables you to privately connect your VPC to supported AWS services and VPC endpoint services powered by PrivateLink without requiring an internet gateway, NAT device, VPN connection, or AWS Direct Connect connection. Instances in your VPC do not require public IP addresses to communicate with resources in the service. Traffic between your VPC and the other service does not leave the Amazon network.  

**CIDR block** — Classless Inter-Domain Routing. An internet protocol address allocation and route aggregation methodology. For more information, see Classless Inter-Domain Routing in Wikipedia. 

**Use cases / Considerations**

What can we do with a VPC? 

- Launch instances into a subnet of your choosing  
- Assign custom IP address ranges in each subnet  
- Configure route tables between subnets 
- Create internet gateway and attach it to our VPC  
- Much better security control over your AWS resources  
- Instance security groups  
- Subnet network access control lists (ACLs) 


## Governance 

Monitoring tools/service: 
- VPC Flow logs 
- CloudWatch 

## Cautions 

You can create 5 VPCs per Region. The quota for internet gateways per Region is directly correlated to this one. Increasing this quota increases the quota on internet gateways per Region by the same amount. You can have 100s of VPCs per Region for your needs even though the default quota is 5 VPCs per Region.  

You can request an increase for these quotas. For some of these quotas, you can view your current quota using the Limits page of the Amazon EC2 console. 

## Pricing considerations 

https://aws.amazon.com/vpc/pricing/ 
 
## More details 

- [What is VPC](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/what-is-amazon-vpc.html)
- [Private Addresses RFC1918](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1918)
- [Prefixes](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/press-centre/understanding-ip-addressing)
- [VPC Limits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/amazon-vpc-limits.html)